


















Publicly Available Data Sources | National Endowment for the Arts







Skip to main content











National Endowment for the Arts 






Search





 





Follow us on X
Follow us on facebook
Follow us on LinkedIn
Apple store
Follow us on instagram
Follow us on youtube






Menu





Grants


Grants


Grants for Arts Projects


Challenge America


Our Town


Research Awards


Partnership Agreement Grants


Creative Writing


Translation Projects


Volunteer to be an NEA Panelist


Manage Your Award


Recent Grants






Initiatives


Initiatives


ArtsHERE


Arts Education Partnership


Blue Star Museums


Citizens' Institute on Rural Design


Creative Forces: NEA Military Healing Arts Network


GSA's Art in Architecture


Independent Film & Media Arts Field-Building Initiative


Interagency Working Group on Arts, Health, & Civic Infrastructure


International


Mayors' Institute on City Design


Musical Theater Songwriting Challenge


National Folklife Network


NEA Big Read


NEA Research Labs


Poetry Out Loud


Save America's Treasures


Shakespeare in American Communities


Sound Health Network


United We Stand






Stories


Stories


American Artscape Magazine 


NEA Art Works Podcast


National Endowment for the Arts Blog






Impact


Impact


States and Regions


Research


Accessibility


Arts & Artifacts Indemnity Program


Arts and Health


Arts Education


Convenings


Creative Placemaking


Equity Action Plan


Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs)


Literary Arts


Media Arts


Native Arts and Culture






Honors


Honors


NEA Jazz Masters Fellowships


National Heritage Fellowships


National Medal of Arts






News


News


Press Releases


Upcoming Events


NEA Chair's Page






About


About


NEA Chair's Page


National Council on the Arts


Leadership and Staff


What Is the NEA


Publications


National Endowment for the Arts on COVID-19


Open Government


Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)


Office of the Inspector General


Civil Rights Office


Appropriations History


Make a Donation






















Breadcrumb


Home


Grants


RESEARCH AWARDS










Publicly Available Data Sources




Below is a list of publicly accessible data sources that include arts-related variables (some restrictions may apply). This list is by no means exhaustive. If you know of a dataset that belongs on this list, please email nearesearchgrants@arts.gov.
National Endowment for the Arts
National Archive of Data on Arts & Culture (NADAC) Note: NADAC is a data repository that
includes numerous datasets which are fit for exploration of arts research topics, some of which are listed below.
1982-2012 Survey of Public Participation in the Arts (SPPA)
2012 Survey of Public Participation in the Arts (SPPA)
2017 Survey of Public Participation in the Arts (SPPA)
Annual Arts Basic Survey (AABS) (waves 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2018)
American Housing Survey (AHS) Arts Supplement (in 2015 wave)
Arts and Cultural Production Satellite Account (ACPSA)
General Social Survey (GSS) Arts Supplement (in 2012 and 2016 waves)
Health and Retirement Study (HRS) Arts and Culture Supplement (in 2014 wave)
National Children’s Study (NCS) Vanguard Study Arts module
Administration for Children and Families (ACF), U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
Building Strong Families (BSF) 2005-2008
Head Start Family and Child Experiences Survey (FACES)
U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, U.S. Department of Commerce 
Arts and Cultural Production Satellite Account (ACPSA)
National Income and Product Accounts Data (NIPA)
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor 
American Time Use Survey 
Consumer Expenditure Survey 
Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey
Occupational Employment and Wages/Occupational Employment Statistic
Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages/Location Quotient
U.S. Census Bureau, U.S. Department of Commerce 
American Community Survey 
County Business Patterns 
Current Population Survey and related supplements (e.g., Volunteers Supplement)
Economic Census
Longitudinal Employer-Household Dynamics
Service Annual Survey
Economic Research Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture
Rural Establishment Innovation Survey
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
American Housing Survey
Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS).
Note: IMLS is a data repository that includes numerous datasets
which are fit for exploration of arts research topics.
Internal Revenue Service
Exempt Organization Business Master File
International Trade Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce
Survey of International Air Travelers
National Center for Education Statistics, U.S. Department of Education
Note: additional datasets beyond the list below may exists that are also appropriate for exploration of arts research topics.
Baccalaureate and Beyond Longitudinal Study 
Beginning Teacher Longitudinal Study 
Early Childhood Longitudinal Program (ECLS) 
Education Longitudinal Study of 2002 (ELS:2002)
Fast Response Survey System 
High School Longitudinal Study of 2009 (HSLS:09) 
High School Transcript Study 
National Assessment of Adult Literacy (NAAL) 
National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) (such as the 2016 and 2008 arts assessment)
National Education Longitudinal Study of 1988 (NELS:88) 
National Household Education Surveys (NHES) Program 
Program for International Student Assessment (PISA)
Schools & Staffing Survey (SASS), Teacher Follow-up Survey (TFS), and Principal Follow-up Survey (PFS)
National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD), U.S. National Institutes of Health
Study of Early Child Care and Youth Development (SECCYD)
National Survey of Children's Health (with Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
National Children’s Study (NCS) Vanguard Study
National Institute of Drug Abuse (NIDA), U.S. National Institutes of Health
Adolescent Brain Cognitive Development (ABCD) Study (limited arts variables)
National Science Foundation
National Survey of College Graduates
Universities and Non-Profit Organizations 
SMU |Data Arts 
DonorsChoose.org. Note: DonorsChoose is a data repository that includes numerous datasets, many on this list, which are fit for exploration of arts research topics. 
Gallup 
Soul of the Community (Knight Foundation)
Indiana University 
National Survey of Student Engagement and High School Survey of Student Engagement
Strategic National Arts Alumni Project
International Association for the Evaluation of Educational Achievement 
Civic Education Study (1999)  
International Civic and Citizenship Education Study (ICCS) 2009 
Progress in International Reading Study (PIRLS) 
Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS)
NORC at the University of Chicago 
General Social Survey (GSS), including Topical Modules on Culture
National Archive of Data on Arts & Culture (NADAC)
National Archive of Data on Arts & Culture (NADAC) is part of the Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research (ICPSR) at the University of Michigan. This data archive includes numerous datasets, many on this list, which are fit for exploration of arts research topics. In addition to free downloading and data analysis on the NADAC website, researchers can find survey questionnaires and related technical documentation.
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 
ADDHealth














Stay Connected to the National Endowment for the Arts
Sign up for our newsletters and magazine


Newsletter Signup
Magazine Signup









About


Contact Us


Equity


Civil Rights


FOIA


No Fear Act


Inspector General


Accessibility


Privacy Policy


Disclaimers


Open Government


USA.gov


Section 508 Accessibility


Scam Regarding NEA Grants





400 7th Street, SW, Washington, DC 20506  
202.682.5400



Follow us on X
Follow us on facebook
Follow us on LinkedIn
Apple store
Follow us on instagram
Follow us on youtube
















